#Getting And Cleaning Data: Course Project
Repository connected with the __Course Project__ of __"Getting And Cleaning Data"__ course on Coursera, January 2015 edition.

##Course Project Information
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set.
 
The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. 

It is required to submit:

1. a tidy data set, 
2. a link to a __Github repository__ containing 
	* the __script__ for performing the analysis (__run_analisys.R__), and
	* the __code book__ that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data (__CodeBook.md__)
	* __README.md__ file explaining how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.

###Description
One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. 

A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

[Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) 

Here are the data for the project: 

[Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)

You should create one R script called __run_analysis.R__ that does the following.

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

##What's available in the repository
* __README.md__ (this file)
* __codebook.md__, describing the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data 
* __run_analysis.R__, the script used to generate the tidy data (from the raw data)
* __rawData.zip__, the raw data (as reference downloaded on 20.01.2015)
* __tidy\_data\_set.txt__, the tidy data set as generated by run_analysis.R script (as reference)

##Tidy dataset: how to
* Clone the repository `git clone https://github.com/pparacch/GettingAndCleaningData.git`
* Open a R console (R or RStudio)
* __Important:__ Remember to set the __working directory__ to the cloned repository folder
* run `run_analisys.R` using `source("run_analisys.R")` for creating the tidy data set 
	* unzip the raw dataset (rawData.zip) in a "data" folder in the working directory. The folder is created if it does not exist.
	* load and process the required data
	* save the tidy dataset (__tidy\_data\_set.txt__) in the working directory

For __reproducibility__ reason it has been decided to have a local copy of the raw data (__rawData.zip__) in the repository. This local copy is used by the __run_analisys.R__ script for the generation of the tidy dataset.

__Note!__ If you want to dowload a more recent version of the raw data please use the following code in a R console
	
	fileUrl <- "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip"
	download.file(fileUrl, destfile = "./rawData.zip", method = "curl")


##


